  p.p1 {margin: 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px 0.0px; text-indent: 48.0px; line-height: 32.0px; font: 16.0px 'Times New Roman'; color: #000000} span.s1 {font-kerning: none} 

The article “Metadata, markup, and data description” examines the multiple functions that metadata performs in a variety of fields. Furthermore, the author argues that metadata can be extremely beneficial to the humanities field by facilitating “fluid” ontologies with adaptive, flexible tags. The author categorizes metadata into three distinct forms: descriptive metadata, administrative metadata, and operational metadata. Metadata is standardized, with a few common systems like MARC (Machine Readable Cataloging) and BIBFRAME, but the author argues for the potential of additional tags which could retain knowledge. Indeed, single, standardized naming systems are often insufficient. The author refers to the example of the Sami people in the artic regions, whose Indigenous knowledge was erased by the classification systems imposed by arriving Europeans. The Europeans soon realized the liability of their ignorance when disasters befell with no knowledge of potential hazards, the Europeans realized the liability of their ignorance. The author additionally argues the significance of folksonomies. User communities create these digital tagging systems for any category of cultural materials. The mass proliferation of folksonomies in the web environment has add value to the field of information. While there is no current form of institutional data incorporation, it can make materials more findable, more usable, and, ultimately, more useful. I was fairly convinced by the author’s thesis. The argumentation was logical and evidence sound. I am skeptical of the implementation of the folksonomies given the sheer volume, but I still agree with the argued value it holds.